In this video, we'll cover the checkout form
to populate credit card expiration dates.
So, in our current application, we have two things to do.
So we need to populate the months,
and we also need to populate the years.
Now, one approach is that we could simply
just hard code the values, but that's not ideal.
So, for years, the years will become outdated.
If we're in year 2022, why show 2020?
We'd like to dynamically populate the current year,
and then go up to the next 10 years.
All righty, so here's our development process.
The first thing we'll do is we'll generate our form service.
Then we'll add methods to the form service
for months and years.
Next, we'll update the checkout components
and retrieve the months and years from the service.
And finally, we'll update the HTML template
to populate the drop-down lists for months and years.
All righty, step one, generating our form service.
So again, we simply use the ng generate command,
service, and we give services/Luv2ShopForm,
and this will generate our Luv2ShopFormService.
All righty, step two is adding methods to our form service
for months and years.
All right, so we'll move into our file, Luv2ShopFormService.
We'll do some imports up top for observable and of,
this is from the rxjs framework,
or the Reactive JavaScript framework,
and we'll use these items in our upcoming code.
All right, so here's our class here, Luv2ShopFormService.
We define this method, getCreditCardMonths,
they'll pass on a start month.
And then we'll have an observable number, square brackets,
meaning an array of numbers.
So we'll actually return an observable array
back to the calling program.
So inside of our method here,
we set up our empty array, data, numbers, square brackets,
and then we're going to build an array
for the month drop-down list.
We're going to start at the desired start month
and loop until 12.
So the pass and start month as a parameter,
we set up our four loops,
so let theMonth = startMonth; theMonth <= 12;
theMonth++, and then we say data.push,
so the data.push adds an element to the array.
And then finally at the end here, we return of data.
Now this is a little bit tricky here,
so we want to return an array, but an observable array,
so we take that array data and then we wrap it
as an observable and we wrap it by using the of operator.
So the of operator's from rxjs,
it'll wrap an object as an observable.
And the reason that we use an observable
is because our angular components
are going to subscribe to this given method
to retrieve the data.
If you'd like to get more information
about rxjs: the Reactive JavaScript framework,
then visit the link here that I have on the slide.
All righty, a bit more here on step two,
we need to add a similar method here for credit card years.
So we have getCreditCardYears, return on observable array.
Internally here I have this data, number square brackets
and array, and then I simply build the array
for the year drop-down list, I start at the current year
and I loop for the next 10 years.
So here I get the current year
by saying new Date .getFullYear,
so this works as expected if the current year's 2020,
this will return 2020.
Similar thing if it's 2024, it's going to return the year 2024.
And in endYear, we simply take the start year plus 10.
And then we simply do a four loop
and then we say data.push(theYear).
And that's all fairly straightforward for you.
The only tricky part, again, is wrapping this array
as an observable, so again, we make use of that of operator
from rxjs to wrap the array as an observable.
And again, we use this because our angular components
are going to subscribe to this given method
to retrieve the data.
And that's basically it here for the method.
So now let's go ahead and move to our angular component
in step three, and we're going to update our checkout component
to retrieve the months and the years.
So we just set up some arrays up top, some empty arrays
for credit card years and credit card months.
For our constructor, we inject our service
that we created previously, our Luv2ShopFormService.
So moving into our ngOnInit method,
we're going to populate the credit card months,
so here I get the start month,
number = new Date().getMonth() + 1,
so that gives me the current month,
but the JavaScript date object, the months are zero-based,
so you'll actually get zero to 11,
so we need to add one here so we can get the months one
to 12, all right, so just one thing to be aware of,
in JavaScript the months are zero-based,
so we simply add one to it.
And if you'd like to get more details here
about the JavaScript data object,
as far as the full documentation,
go to the link here and we will redirect you
to the official JavaScript documentation for this.
So then I call luv2ShopFormService.getCreditCardMonths,
I pass in a start month, I build .subscribe,
and then once that data's returned,
I log the information and then I also make the assignment,
this.creditCardMonths = data.
And that's basically it there for the coding,
as far as retrieving the credit card months.
So here we do a similar thing
for getting the credit card years,
we call luv2ShopFormService.getCreditCardYears,
do a .subscribe, and then once that data's returned,
we simply log it and then assign it,
this.creditCardYears = data.
And then finally here with step four,
we're going to update the HTML template
to populate the drop-down lists,
so in our select formControlName="expirationMonth",
here we make use of that ngFor and we loop over the arrays,
so let month of creditCardMonths,
that's from our component that we just created
and we populated accordingly,
then we make use of it here in our actual template page
and then in the center here,
we do the curly brace, curly brace, month,
to actually display that given month,
or use that to actually populate the drop-down list.
And then we simply repeat the process here
for expiration year, so let year of creditCardYears,
we loop over that array,
and then we use the year in curly braces there
to populate the drop-down list accordingly.
So we're simply retrieving data from our component.
All right, so this all looks really good.
Let's go ahead and move into our IDE
and let's start writing a code.